---
title: "Improving my Prayer Time?"
publishDate: "2006-09-19"
categories: 
  - "religion"
---

I don't click on spam links. Really. I guess the spammers have to send the messages, but I don't have to respond. I always read the from and subject lines with my fingers on Ctrl-D, and I can see the come-ons going by in the preview window. When the spam is all gone -- usually 20 or so messages -- I read the newsletters I have requested and sometimes hear from a friend or family member. But I was tempted, really tempted, to click on this one that came today. It came from Living Christian. Now, who in their right mind with the last name Christian would name their kid "Living"? When choosing names, one should give some thought to where the names will appear: on the birth announcement, on the diploma, on the wedding invitation, on the organizational chart, on the grave marker. Imagine seeing in the obituaries that Living has died. Or maybe somewhere a spam think-tank believes that Living is such a common name that I will believe it is someone I met at a conference and open the e-mail and be snared by the come-on graphics. But wait, the e-mail isn't addressed to me. It is addressed to N. I am not N. I know who M is, and I know who Q is, but these are the only letter people I know. I know a Bea, a Dee, and a Jay, but these aren't B, D, and J. I don't even know who N is, and here I am with N's e-mail. In the preview pane, there is the come-on graphic. An ethnic-appearing model, not quite any race except Maybelline. Just the head, arms, and shoulders. Face almost in profile, just a bit toward the camera. Elbows on white sheets, hands clasped under her upturned chin. Eyes on the ceiling light fixture, apparently. A loose plunging neckline of white in a sleeveless camisole. Long black hair loose and brushed back. Full mouth closed, a bit sad. And the headline -- actually reading toward the forehead --

> Strengthen your Faith Daily Try Living Christian Software **Free\*** Today

There are exciting features listed, like searching for any Bible passage (the way you can in Google, I imagine), and add and track your notes through the program. And "tests and quizzes throughout to track and test your knowledge." And at the bottom of the graphic of course the reminder that you can try it free. Living Christian, which, by the way, you can _try_ free, is not the only product in the ad. Outside the graphic box (which is one big link, just in case you are one of those random clickers) there is another teaser. It says "Improve your prayer time -- visit here." Now, improving your prayer time has to be serious business. And I am impressed that you can try Living Christian free. But my fingers are on Ctrl D, and I am not N, and the nano-second that I wonder what they are selling and how much it costs falls to the reflex, and I go read my newsletter from AARP. But I did pause for just a split second, so I may be getting weak. Next thing you know I may click on "Innovative Degrees" or "Dream Job" or "fwd: Wanna money with BCLC great" or "FSR - Turn your PC into a SuperTV." But I did manage to resist "Are you Christian, N?"
