---
title: "Promoting the public option"
publishDate: "2009-06-19"
categories: 
  - "health-care"
---

To all people 18-65 whose health insurance is too expensive and/or inadequate: The government already is the largest single payer of health insurance?just in the worst possible way. Taxpayers pay for all high-risk people through Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP. In the low-risk group (age18-65), government employees have government-subsidized policies. Military personnel have government health care. These groups include more than half, and by some counts, a good two-thirds of Americans. Taxpayers eventually pay for the uninsured. We pay emergency room costs for neglected illness that could have been treated earlier in less expensive ways. Also, Medicare costs more for people coming in at age 65 from the uninsured population than for those who had health insurance. The higher cost persists for several years as a group statistic, and for individuals it the higher cost may last a lifetime. Taxpayers pick up this extra cost of Medicare that is a delayed effect of working-age people not having health care. Working people age 18 to 65 employed in private business and industry, self-employed, or whose work is interrupted (seasonal, lay-offs, etc.) are the demographic with the lowest statistical risk of serious illness. Most of us in this category do not have adequate health care. Either we have nothing, or we have "health insurance," that does all of the bad things our reluctant government-insured representatives in Washington say that single-payer health care will do: it limits choice and controls access. Plus it costs us, sometimes literally, an arm and a leg. The only demographic not currently supported by the taxpayer is relatively strong, healthy, independent people age 18 to 65. People in this group have been tossed to the insurance companies so that they can wring out profits. This abandonment is literally a gift to corporate interests made by politicians who serve the companies, not the people. Adding the 18-65 low-risk group to the government health care pool will even out and ultimately lower health care costs across the board. We know this because it is the principle by which private insurance decides who is profitable to insure and who they will deny. We need health care, not health insurance. Health care is a right, not a privilege. Working Americans should be calling their representatives and senators, telling them we are sick of health insurance and we want health care. And tell them they need to quit selling us to corporate interests.
